### Conclusions

Key Lessons I've Learned:

- Planning is very important: Making specs & roadmaps before you actually start writing is important. Flesh out the general data structures ie TS Data Types, backend data schemas & db structures, third party libraries & dependencies, data contracts and interactions between front end and back end.
- Create proper test data: Testing on production data can be dangerous & unstable. It is fine for read heavy workloads but for write jobs you should have test data that can be safely mutated without fear of hurting the user experience.
- Design things in a scalable way: IE when I made the upload events page, I should have designed it around the multiple events case. Then the single event case just becomes a multiple event case with a length of 1, as opposed to the single event case being the norm and then the multiple event case requiring a complete rewrite & extension of the single event case to accomodate this.
- Competition: There is always somebody with the same idea and maybe who has executed also. Focus on differentiating your product and making your UX superior. Or try to take what you like about their product and include it into yours.
- User Friction: You should ALWAYS be striving to decrease friction between the user and your product. IE no heavy captchas, don't force them to login to do anything
- Fallbacks: Always have some sort of fallback. IE fallbacks for the images so you dont show a broken image link.. fallbacks for your env variables so nothng fails.. fallbacks for error handling so nothing breaks... fallbacks for genre tagging so you have some sort of data... fallbacks in case of a network outage or a backend failure
- Form Validation: Using zod was a great help but didn't help for nested arrays of state... this can get very complex. At the very least you must check to make sure nothing is null / matches the types for basic input validation.
- RLS: Make sure your RLS policies are set properly! SELECT \* will be allowed for anybody but thats it. Any other operation must use the secret key and only happen from the backend so nothing gets exposed via devtools network captures. Secret keys bypass RLS policies unlike anon keys you can use from the FE. Security in general, make sure you're doing anything important from the server side IE any genAI or twilio should be happening from the backend as that cannot be intercepted by the user. Don't store any secrets in the request body as these can be seen in devtools, set as a header.
- Users: It is very hard to get people to use your service. Even if it provides a valuable service, you need to do significant outreach and almost become a public figure to get anything done. After all this work I have ONE SINGLE USER who has logged in.
- Libraries: External dependencies can speed up your development and make things easy but it can quickly become a tangled mess of services and you can get vendor locked quickly. Using Netlify functions seemed like a great idea at the time until I realized there is a 30 second timeout and a limited amount of credits per month. But by the time you have 50 functions running you're not going to want to shift your whole architecture.
- MVP: Only build what you need at the moment to launch. I built everything strategically and only prioritized the next item if it made sense... IE i want to build out a comment section but there's no point if nobodys submitting articles. Every round of feedback provided me with more features to build out. There was no need to build an automated event review workflow for user submitted events because people aren't even submitting events at that high of a volume. There's no reason to extend the reminders to SMS (downgrade twilio messaging to individual plan) because nobodys even using email reminders or favorites yet.
- Appearance: Your app only has to APPEAR as if its working. Handling error / empty cases is very important as it gives the illusion that your app is working even if something appears wrong. The average user doesn't understand how these things work so use that to your advantage.
- AI: Don't offload all your cognitive thinking to AI. Once you make a code change with AI and then forget why you did it later, you've introduced spaghetti code into your codebase. Be very explicit as Claude will try to mess with other components or introduce some unecessary logic into your application. You can tell it to explain itself in detail or use it more as a planning tool / assistant or when you're burned out it can take certain features to the finish line.
- Mobile First: Design everything mobile first and the desktop layout just become the sm: or md: equivalents. Your base case is always mobile. IE make anything flex-row or grid on desktop -> flex-column on mobile.
- Hierachy: Typography matters a lot. Mix up the sizing of fonts for different types of text ie labels, data, buttons, headers should all have different size or weighted fonts.
- Cost: The easiest solutions usually have some hidden cost. netlify was super easy to deploy to but I didn't anticipate analytics costing money and the serverless functions having a limit. AI workloads are also very costly so don't burn through your tokens unecessarily. IE i'm only generating the event description when a user clicks onit because there's no need to generate a description if nobody clicks on it.
-
